# Compound Components

## 📝 Your Notes

### Compound Components Pattern

The Compound Components Pattern enables you to provide a set of components that
implicitly share state for a simple yet powerful declarative API for reusable
components.

#### React.Children.map

`React.Children.map` provides users of React a way to map over components. This
implementation of `map` by React has some special sauce that works with React
components because it can accept the different ways React components can be
defined. At the end of the day, all of React's APIs for defining components ends
up being a `React.createElement` call, which returns an object.

So this is how you map over given components via the `children` prop and from
there you can modify these children passed in.

#### React.cloneElement

`React.cloneElement` is other half of the Compound Components Pattern. It allows
you to clone an element and provide it additional props as necessary.

In the case of this `Toggle` component, we add the `on` state and the `toggle`
function.

`React.Children.map` and `React.cloneElement` allow developers to provide a set
of components that implicitly share state for a simple yet powerful declarative
API for reusable components.

#### Rendering DOM Components when using `React.Children.map`

In our over engineered `Toggle` component, `React.Children.map` maps over the
children passed to `Toggle` and uses `React.cloneElement` to add some additional
props (the implicitly shared state props).

If you were to try to render a DOM component (a build-in component like
`<div/>`, `<span />,` or `<blink />`), and trying adding those implicit props,
you'd get a warning logged to the console.

At least the app wouldn't break, but we don't want to have warnings being logged
to the console.

The problem with this is that raw DOM components don't accept props. Props are
for custom components built using React APIs. To fix this warning, you can check
the child's `type` property. React components have a type of `function` where as
DOM components will have a string type, like `span`, or `div`, depending on the
DOM component that was created.

Instead of checking for type of `function`, you could check for `typeof string`,
because all DOM components will have a type of `string`.

#### Users Providing Own Components to your Compound Component

In the case of the `Toggle` component, we provided a `ToggleOn`, `ToggleOff` and
`ToggleButton` component.

Users could also use their own version of `ToggleButton` for example, and they
could write their components to take the implicit props being shared. That's a
great API that would allows consumers of your component to customize their own
components to make use of the implicitly shared state between components.

If you wanted to limit the Users to only providing components you allow, you can
create a list of the allowed types and you could make sure that the child is of
the type of your allowed components.

```js
const allowedTypes = [ToggleOn, ToggleOff, ToggleButton]

function Toggle({children}) {
  return React.Children.map(children, child => {
    if (allowedTypes.includes(child.type)) {
      // add props to allowed components
      return newChild
    }
    // don't add props to not allowed components
    return child
  })
}
```

## Background

**One liner:** The Compound Components Pattern enables you to provide a set of
components that implicitly share state for a simple yet powerful declarative API
for reusable components.

Compound components are components that work together to form a complete UI. The
classic example of this is `<select>` and `<option>` in HTML:

```html
<select>
  <option value="1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="2">Option 2</option>
</select>
```

The `<select>` is the element responsible for managing the state of the UI, and
the `<option>` elements are essentially more configuration for how the select
should operate (specifically, which options are available and their values).

Let's imagine that we were going to implement this native control manually. A
naive implementation would look something like this:

```jsx
<CustomSelect
  options={[
    {value: '1', display: 'Option 1'},
    {value: '2', display: 'Option 2'},
  ]}
/>
```

This works fine, but it's less extensible/flexible than a compound components
API. For example. What if I want to supply additional attributes on the
`<option>` that's rendered, or I want the `display` to change based on whether
it's selected? We can easily add API surface area to support these use cases,
but that's just more for us to code and more for users to learn. That's where
compound components come in really handy!

**Real World Projects that use this pattern:**

- [`@reach/tabs`](https://reach.tech/tabs)
- Actually most of [Reach UI](https://reach.tech) implements this pattern

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/02.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.js)

Every reusable component starts out as a simple implementation for a specific
use case. It's advisable to not overcomplicate your components and try to solve
every conceivable problem that you don't yet have (and likely will never have).
But as changes come (and they almost always do), then you'll want the
implementation of your component to be flexible and changeable. Learning how to
do that is the point of much of this workshop.

This is why we're starting with a super simple `<Toggle />` component.

In this exercise we're going to make `<Toggle />` the parent of a few compound
components:

- `<ToggleOn />` renders children when the `on` state is `true`
- `<ToggleOff />` renders children when the `on` state is `false`
- `<ToggleButton />` renders the `<Switch />` with the `on` prop set to the `on`
  state and the `onClick` prop set to `toggle`.

We have a Toggle component that manages the state, and we want to render
different parts of the UI however we want. We want control over the presentation
of the UI.

🦉 The fundamental challenge you face with an API like this is the state shared
between the components is implicit, meaning that the developer using your
component cannot actually see or interact with the state (`on`) or the
mechanisms for updating that state (`toggle`) that are being shared between the
components.

So in this exercise, we'll solve that problem by providing the compound
components with the props they need implicitly using `React.cloneElement`.

Here's a simple example of using `React.Children.map` and `React.cloneElement`:

```javascript
function Foo({children}) {
  return React.Children.map(children, (child, index) => {
    return React.cloneElement(child, {
      id: `i-am-child-${index}`,
    })
  })
}

function Bar() {
  return (
    <Foo>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-0"</div>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-1"</div>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-2"</div>
    </Foo>
  )
}
```

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 Support DOM component children

[Production deploy](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.extra-1.js)

> A DOM component is a built-in component like `<div />`, `<span />`, or
> `<blink />`. A composite component is a custom component like `<Toggle />` or
> `<App />`.

Try updating the `App` to this:

```javascript
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Toggle>
        <ToggleOn>The button is on</ToggleOn>
        <ToggleOff>The button is off</ToggleOff>
        <span>Hello</span>
        <ToggleButton />
      </Toggle>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Notice the error message in the console and try to fix it.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=02%3A%20Compound%20Components&em=).
