# Flexible Compound Components

## ðŸ“ Your Notes

The Flexible Compound Components Pattern only differs from the previous Compound
Components pattern in that it uses React context.

Using React context allows for accessing the related state and updaters in any
component rendered within the React component tree of the Compound Context.

For example, if a consumer of your component wanted to nest one of the compound
components in a container, if you were using the previous pattern of passing the
state and updater using `React.Children.map` and `React.cloneElement`, then if
you nested one of the compound components in a `div` for example, the nested
component wouldn't get it.

Although the pattern did ensure the `div` wouldn't get the state un-necessarily
(by checking the type of the child component being rendered), the nested
relevant component wouldn't get it.

Using React context allows for the compound components to access the appropriate
state/updaters any where in tree.

**note**: To provide a better error for consumers, you should check that the
`context` is being used within the React context provider by providing a helper
function to give access to the hook.

**note**: Don't forget to use the `displayName` property on the Context so users
can see a better name for the context in the React developer tools

## Background

**One liner:** The Flexible Compound Components Pattern only differs from the
previous exercise in that it uses React context. You should use this version of
the pattern more often.

Right now our component can only clone and pass props to immediate children. So
we need some way for our compound components to implicitly accept the on state
and toggle method regardless of where they're rendered within the Toggle
component's "posterity" :)

The way we do this is through context. `React.createContext` is the API we want.

**Real World Projects that use this pattern:**

- [`@reach/accordion`](https://reach.tech/accordion)

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/03.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.js)

The fundamental difference between this exercise and the last one is that now
we're going to allow people to render the compound components wherever they like
in the render tree. Searching through `props.children` for the components to
clone would be futile. So we'll use context instead.

Your job will be to make the `ToggleContext` which will be used to implicitly
share the state between these components, and then a custom hook to consume that
context for the compound components to do their job.

## Extra Credit

### 1. ðŸ’¯ custom hook validation

[Production deploy](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-1.js)

Change the `App` function to this:

```javascript
const App = () => <ToggleButton />
```

Why doesn't that work? Can you figure out a way to give the developer a better
error message?

## ðŸ¦‰ Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=03%3A%20Flexible%20Compound%20Components&em=).
