# Prop Collections and Getters

## 📝 Your Notes

### Prop Collections

In order to make things easier for consumers of your hooks, it's a good idea to
provide a 'Prop Collections' object that consumers can use to address common use
cases without requiring them to have to hook things up manually.

This is very helpful because it takes the responsibility of hooking things up
properly from the consumer and allows the developer of the custom hook to ensure
their hook is getting used properly.

The developer provides, in an object, as a prop, an object that contains the
necessary props for consumers to correctly use their hook for common use cases.

Consumers can then just spread those props on any of their components that make
use of the hook.

**note**: It is still important to provide anything exposed via the Prop
Collection as individual props. This will allow the consumers of the hook to use
those props as they need, in case the standards uses provided by the 'Prop
Collection' doesn't meet all their needs for their use case. Like for example,
add an `onClick` handler with the function exposed via the hook or an
`aria-pressed` for buttons.

### Prop Getters

Prop collections fall over once you want to allow the consumer to provide their
own props that require composing. In the example below, when using Prop
Collections, if a user wants to provide an `onClick` handler of their own (to
say call some metrics or debug), there wouldn't be an easy way to do that. If
the consumer provides their own `onClick` before spreading the prop collection,
then their custom `onClick` gets over written, if they provide their own
`onClick` after the Prop Collection spread, then they lose the built-in
functionality provided by the hook.

They _could_ create a function that'll call the exposed `toggle` function
before/after running their own handler, but that's messy, especially if there're
multiple handlers for the component.

Prop Collections also fall short if you want to combine `classNames` or style
props.

Instead! Use the 'Prop Getters' pattern!

This is a pattern where instead of using an object to contain the built-in
props, you use a function that'll compose the built-in props with the user's
provided custom props.

#### What about providing handler/classNames/style props that require combining??

In that scenario, you would accept the handlers/classNames/style props and
perform the composition within the 'Prop Getter'.

You would destructure the props that require composition and ensure the built-in
props that are necessary are respected and compose where possible.

**note**: A `callAll` function is incredibly handy when dealing with multiple
functions for a single handler (ie. when your hook has an `onClick` handler and
the user provides their own `onClick`). It's a function that accepts any number
of functions and will call each one in sequence. It does this by returning a
function that accepts any number of arguments and will call each function (if
it's a function) with all the arguments.

## Background

**One liner:** The Prop Collections and Getters Pattern allows your hook to
support common use cases for UI elements people build with your hook.

In typical UI components, you need to take accessibility into account. For a
button functioning as a toggle, it should have the `aria-pressed` attribute set
to `true` or `false` if it's toggled on or off. In addition to remembering that,
people need to remember to also add the `onClick` handler to call `toggle`.

Lots of the reusable/flexible components and hooks that we'll create have some
common use-cases and it'd be cool if we could make it easier to use our
components and hooks the right way without requiring people to wire things up
for common use cases.

**Real World Projects that use this pattern:**

- [downshift](https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift) (uses prop getters)
- [react-table](https://github.com/tannerlinsley/react-table) (uses prop
  getters)
- [`@reach/tooltip`](https://reach.tech/tooltip) (uses prop collections)

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/04.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.js)

In our simple example, this isn't too much for folks to remember, but in more
complex components, the list of props that need to be applied to elements can be
extensive, so it can be a good idea to take the common use cases for our hook
and/or components and make objects of props that people can simply spread across
the UI they render.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 prop getters

[Production deploy](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-1.js)

Uh oh! Someone wants to use our `togglerProps` object, but they need to apply
their own `onClick` handler! Try doing that by updating the `App` component to
this:

```javascript
function App() {
  const {on, togglerProps} = useToggle()
  return (
    <div>
      <Switch on={on} {...togglerProps} />
      <hr />
      <button
        aria-label="custom-button"
        {...togglerProps}
        onClick={() => console.info('onButtonClick')}
      >
        {on ? 'on' : 'off'}
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Does that work? Why not? Can you change it to make it work?

What if we change the API slightly so that instead of having an object of props,
we call a function to get the props. Then we can pass that function the props we
want applied and that function will be responsible for composing the props
together.

Let's try that. Update the `App` component to this:

```javascript
function App() {
  const {on, getTogglerProps} = useToggle()
  return (
    <div>
      <Switch {...getTogglerProps({on})} />
      <hr />
      <button
        {...getTogglerProps({
          'aria-label': 'custom-button',
          onClick: () => console.info('onButtonClick'),
          id: 'custom-button-id',
        })}
      >
        {on ? 'on' : 'off'}
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

See if you can make that API work.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=04%3A%20Prop%20Collections%20and%20Getters&em=).
